---
layout: default
title: Scrapers!
---

I biked down to Rockler today to get a set of scrapers. Then I procrastinated actually prepping the scraper edge for a very long time, in the meanwhile reading 20 or so pages of the ‘in progress’ thread at mandolincafe and other unproductive things.

This morning I was sketching out designs for the peghead and settled on one I like. It's a bit evocative of the curly F5 design, but much simpler. I actually came up with it tracing different lines around a roll of tape, so it's somewhat geometric and balanced. I cut it into an index card taped over the headstock, and sometime sooner or later I'll transfer it right onto the peghead front and back to make sure I like it, from there it's cutting time!

Reluctant to hone/burnish the edges of fancy new scrapers I experimented with a cheap handheld flat sander clamped upside down into a vice as a method for getting the unwanted chisel marks out of the backboard, it didn't make much difference. Finally I bit the bullet and hoped that the knife–sharpening tool from the kitchen was in fact hard enough steel to burnish the scraper and found myself a file, some kind of sharpening stone (not sure exactly what kind), some motor oil, a leather strop and the burnisher and went down and did it. The instructions for doing it make it sound a lot more complicated than it is. Basically all you're doing is cleaning up the edge, sharpening it a bit, and then applying pressure with the burnisher that bends a bit of metal on either edge of the scraper out into something like a little sharp mushroom, that can eat away at wood as you scrape.

I worked great not only at taking care of my overzealous carving, but also at knocking down a lot of the ridges that were in both the top– and backboard, giving them dare I say a nice smooth rounded look. On the downside my desk is full of sawdust and wood shavings (as is my throat) but I suppose that's a small price to pay for all this. Before busting out the scrapers I was a bit down on myself–hoping I hadn't burned out on this whole thing already—but now I'm nice and excited again.

I need to get the neck fitted into the dovetail. When I put it in it's about 1mm short of going all the way to the bottom of its slot, and I'm very wary of overcompensating and coming out with a wobbly neck joint. It's pretty important that it be right down the middle as well: the dowels that go in would probably stabilize it if it did happen to be a bit wobbly, but they'd be unlikely to do so in a balanced fashion. I also need to figure out the whole neck angle thing, hopefully the way the joint is cut it comes out at a good angle without me having to do much of anything.

—4/18/09
