---
layout: default
title: Glue
---

I glued some stuff the other day! Tuesday I think. Got the binding on (more on that in a moment) and then the tone bars. The tone bars fit pretty well, but in the course of clamping them down one of them turned a bit to the side and there's a gap on the outside edge, which kind of sucks. But I'll learn from it.

Part of my motivation with this kit is to make a really nice mandolin, but a part of me also doesn't want to do such a good job that I don't feel motivated to try again. I originally wanted to build one from scratch, but my lack of tools and the ready availability of a kit changed my mind. So hopefully this whets my proverbial whistle enough to keep me going with all this and the final product of this build is reasonable.

And on the binding: wtf! I got it all glued on, held down with masking tape. Let it dry overnight. Before work the next morning I took off the tape: and the bend up on the base side of the neck hadn't stuck. It fit the curves well (I borrowed a hair dryer to get a nice fit). There wasn't much force to pull the plastic away from the wood, but the glue just hadn't held.

Oh well, I figured, for a first–time binding job this little bit coming loose isn't too bad. So I re-glued it and set it out to dry while I was at work. By this point I was starting to enjoy the Duco cement a lot less than the first time I used it.

Stayed downtown a bit late last (wednesday) night, got on my bike and made it home at around 10. At which point I went up to check on how the glue touch-up had gone. It was fine, but the binding on the other side had popped off. To make things all the more fun, as I was re-gluing the treble–side binding, even more of the binding on the bass side came loose. This led me to believe that my combination of Duco/masking tape wasn't quite doing the job that it should.

So I pulled most of the binding off, dressed the channel to try and get some of the latent glue out of there, and went at it again. But this time after taping the binding I used a handful of rubber bands to hopefully get it to stick better.

I think I've heard of people using superglue and an accelerant to get their binding to stick, which doesn't particularly appeal to me. The Duco fumes are enough to make me wonder how long it'll be before some kind of cancer starts growing somewhere very precious to me (not that in the world today it's very easy to avoid toxicity, but I can do better than inhale the stuff all the time).

"Dudenbostel says he uses pieces of ivoroid binding melted in acetone":http://dudenbostel.leanside.com/6.html#67, which I'll have to consider for next time.

I'll have to check on how the rubber-banding turns out when I get home later. Also on the agenda is trying to find a blade for the ratty old coping saw that'd been lost in a drawer full of PVC pipe. Once I've got one of those I'll take a blank piece of wood and practice cutting the top of the headstock, and hopefully I can get onto actually cutting it out here sooner or later.

I'm a bit worried that the side/top assembly has started to bend funny. I don't have a form to put them in for when I get to gluing on the back, I'll probably have to make one. Can't have any gaps in that joint.