---
layout: default
title: The binding channel
---

I'm a bit bummer out by how the binding in this kit works. For one it's cheap then plastic binding—which really isn't that bad, but a bit of a letdown—but for two, the channel is pre-routed into the top assembly, and near the saddle the soundboard ended more than a millimeter short of the binding channel. This would have left an obvious gap between the plastic and top, assuming I could ever get the binding glued on (there's nothing for it to stick to!)

I tried to think up how to go about fixing this, and it came down to (1) finding some kind of filler to go in the gap or (2) cutting the binding channel deeper, so it lay flush with the edge of the soundboard, then sanding the side wood back to the binding. I decided that any kind of filler would look crappy, and decided to chisel the binding channel. Unfortunately the inside lining that helps the top glue to the sides is very thin, and the glue job around the tail block is very sketchy on the bass side. There's a big gap between the side and the tail block, which made the chiseling hard. Because the side isn't glued in there, I cracked it while trying to chisel the binding channel deeper, making a very small crack in the side above the tail block where it wasn't glued. I don't think should cause any kind of structural damage, and cosmetically will be covered by the tailpiece, but it's still a bit maddening.

It also really messes with my plans to sand the sides back to the modified binding, because applying any kind of pressure to the side where it isn't abutting and glued to the tailblock will crack it more, and the last thing I want are the sides coming apart. I'm going to think about what I could put in the gap between block and side that would support the side. After that I can glue on the binding and then if worst comes to worst I can hold off on sanding the sides back to where the binding is.